# Collaborative-Program

### Structure, Design, and Implementation Strategy

* Summarize the project and what problem it was solving.
  * The purpose of this project was to implement both Python and C++ for a fully functional grocery management program. This project used reading and writing files, parsing data from those files, manipulating and utilizing the data to provide useful and meaningful data to the user. This project solved the problem of automating inventory management and tracking specific data which could be used to provide statistics for a grocery store and it's customers.

* What did you do particularly well?
  * I did especially well with my file managment, which includes reading and writing to the file in a safe and efficient manner. While I opened the file, I made sure to store that data into a dictionary(Python dict variable with key and value), which made it especially useful for storing the necessary information about the product which included the item name(key) and the quantity(value). This way I could just reference the items key and use the items quantity value. This also meant I could manipulate the data if necessary for future implementations which could require CRUD(Create, Read/Render, Update, Delete) utitilization. 

* Where could you enhance your code? How would these improvements make your code more efficient, secure, and so on?
  * Some improvements I could make include the use of a class for items and giving specific functionalities for each item. Those functionalities could be updating an items quantity and name value variables. Since the project was limited to a specific scope for items, I think this is the most secure and efficient structure. I also think I could have created a more efficient read and write function, meaning I would only have to read a file once and then store those contents globally rather then locally, which would require reading the file every time I write to the file or want to make changes. I could write a function to determine if there are any changes without storing or creating a new variable to hold the values of the file contents, and then determine next steps through the results.

* Which pieces of the code did you find most challenging to write, and how did you overcome this? What tools or resources are you adding to your support network?
  * The most challenging part of this project was reading and writing to a file. It was difficult to determine where specifically a file would be in order to read it properly and store the location effectively. It was also difficult to parse the data and determine a specific pattern to store that data. Determining the proper data structure to store that data in was also quite tricky since it required future outlook and planning to find the best and most efficient solution. In order to overcome these challenges I made sure to understand exactly where a user would store the file and how that data would be stored, based on the file structure. Then I would determine the creation for the .dat file based on the stored data and quantities held within my dictionary, and generate the file.

* What skills from this project will be particularly transferable to other projects or course work?
  * Reading and writing to a file are crucial for data manipulation in any sort of program, so I think this is the most useful and transferable to other projects in the future. Understanding and strategizing data structure for efficient flow and parsing can help make a program more efficient. It's important to plan and lay out the general structure of your data, and how it will be used. These are all important factors which contribute to the storage and structure of data, in order to best utilize it. I also am going to be using multiple langauges within eachother from here on out, as it has proven to be more effective and efficient when handling specific tasks, such as reading and writing to a file or parsing/calculating data. 

* How did you make this program maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
  * In order to make the program maintainable I made it very easy for another developer to implement future features by using a "one-to-many" strategy when designing my functions or variables. It's important to understand the future or potential use of your code since it could be utilized in a variety of ways. It's important to create software that can be universally implemented, since this allows other developers the freedom to create more advanced programs for future implementations. This is also important for designing data structures and thinking of how the data will best be used for future features, which could include a more definitive way of managing the data or an expansive way to store and generate new items in the program. This way I was able to cover maintainability, readability, and adaptability.
 
